Pattern Finder: MAS Detection in Grid
This Python script identifies occurrences of the specific pattern "MAS" in a grid of characters. It checks all four 90-degree rotations of the grid to ensure no occurrences are missed.

Pattern Description
The script searches for the "MAS" pattern in a 3x3 block, structured as follows:

css
Copy code
M   M
  A  
S   S
The pattern consists of:

Two 'M's in the top corners,
'A' in the center,
Two 'S's in the bottom corners.
Features
Grid Rotation: Automatically rotates the grid clockwise four times to check for patterns in all orientations.
Flexible Input: Reads the grid from an external text file.
Error Handling: Provides clear error messages if the input file is missing or improperly formatted.
How to Use
1. Input File Structure
Create a text file (e.g., input.txt) with the grid of characters. Each line represents one row. Ensure the grid is rectangular (all rows have the same length).

Example Grid:

Copy code
MMMASMMM
MMMASMMM
MMMASMMM
2. Script Execution
Save the script in a .py file, for example, find_pattern.py.
Place the input.txt file in the same directory as the script.
Run the script:
bash
Copy code
python find_pattern.py
Output
The script outputs the total occurrences of the "MAS" pattern across all four rotations of the grid.

Example Output:

sql
Copy code
Total occurrences of the 'MAS' pattern across all rotations: 4
Project Files
find_pattern.py: The main script.
input.txt: The file containing the grid of characters.
Error Handling
File Not Found: If input.txt is missing, the script prints:

vbnet
Copy code
Error: The file at './input.txt' was not found. Please provide a valid input file.
Unexpected Errors: For any other issue, the script prints:

go
Copy code
An unexpected error occurred: <details of the error>
Customization
Update the file_path variable in the script if your input.txt file is located elsewhere.
Adjust the grid or the pattern detection logic for similar problems involving different patterns.
License
This project is released under the MIT License. Feel free to use and modify it as needed.
